---
layout: default
title: Publications
---


My publications in peer reviewed journals and conferences.

h2. Selected Publications

Telmo Menezes, Camille Roth, Automatic Discovery of Agent Based Models: an Application to Social Anthropology, _Advances in Complex Systems_ [accepted for publication]

Telmo Menezes, "Evolutionary Modeling of a Blog Network":{{ site.baseurl }}publications/evolutionary-modeling-of-a-blog-network, _in Proc. of the IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation, CEC 2011_, New Orleans, USA, June 2011

Telmo Menezes, Camille Roth, Jean-Philippe Cointet, "Precursors and Laggards: An Analysis of Semantic Temporal Relationships on a Blog Network":{{ site.baseurl }}publications/precursors-and-laggards, _Proc. of the IEEE International Conference on Social Computing, SocialCom10_, Minneapolis, USA, August 2010

Telmo Menezes, Evolutionary Computational Intelligence for Multi-Agent Simulations. _Ph.D. Thesis_, University of Coimbra, 2009

Telmo Menezes, Ernesto Costa, "Artificial Brains as Networks of Computational Building Blocks":{{ site.baseurl }}publications/artificial-brains-as-networks-of-computational-building-blocks, _Proc. of the 5th European Conference on Complex Systems_, Jerusalem, Israel, September 2008

h2. Other Publications

Telmo Menezes, Camille Roth, *Artiﬁcial Social Scientist: an Application to Marriage Networks*, _Proc. of the Interdisciplinary Workshop on Information and Decision in Social Networks (WIDS 2012)_, MIT, Cambrige, MA, USA, November 2012

Telmo Menezes, Camille Roth and Klaus Hamberger, *Finding Generators for Alliance Networks*, _Proc. of ESSA 2012 – 8th Conference of the European Social Simulation Association_, University of Salzburg, Austria, September 2012

Telmo Menezes, Camille Roth, Jean-Philippe Cointet, *Finding the Semantic-Level Precursors on a Blog Network*, _International Journal of Social Computing and Cyber-Physical Systems_

Telmo Menezes, *A process for mapping large directed networks to 2D images and its applications*, _Poster presentation at the European Conference on Complex Systems 2011_, University of Vienna, Austria, 2011

Telmo Menezes, Ernesto Costa, *Coevolution of Competing Agents Species in a Game-like Environment*, _Proc. of the 1st European Workshop on Bio-inspired Algorithms in Games_, EvoGAMES 2009, Tübigen, Germany, April 2009

Telmo Menezes, Ernesto Costa, *Modelling Evolvable Brains – An Heterogeneous Network Approach*, _International Journal of Information Technology and Intelligent Computing_, 2 : 2, January 2008

Telmo Menezes, Ernesto Costa, *Designing for Surprise*, _Proc. of the 9th European Conference on Artificial Life, ECAL 2007_, Lisbon, September 2007

Telmo Menezes, Ernesto Costa, *The Gridbrain: an Heterogeneous Network for Open Evolution in 3D Environments*, _Proc. of the The First IEEE Symposium on Artificial Life, The First IEEE Symposium on Artificial Life_, Honolulu, USA, April 2007

Telmo Menezes, Ernesto Costa, *A First Order Language to Coevolve Agents in Complex Social Simulations*, _Proc. of the European Conference on Complex Systems 2006_, University of Oxford, September 2006

Tiago Baptista, Telmo Menezes, Ernesto Costa, *BitBang: A Model and Framework for Complexity Research*, _Proc. of the European Conference on Complex Systems 2006_, Oxford, United Kingdom, September 2006

Telmo Menezes, Tiago Baptista, Ernesto Costa, *Towards the Generation of Complex Game Worlds*, _Proc. of the IEEE Symposium on Computational Intelligence and Games (CIG’06)_, Reno/Lake Tahoe, USA, May 2006

Telmo Menezes, Diamantino Costa, Miguel Tavares, *On the Extension of Xception to Support Software Fault Models*, _Proc. of the International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE2000)_, San Jose, USA, October, 2000

Telmo Menezes, João Carreira, *Experiment Management for the Xception Fault Injection Technology*, _Proc. of the International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE’99)_, Boca Raton, USA, November 1999

Hernâni Pedroso, Luís M. Silva, Víctor Batista, Paulo Martins, Guilherme Soares, Telmo Menezes, *Parallel Computing over the Internet with Java*, _Proc. of the 3rd International Meeting on Vector and Parallel Processing (VECPAR’98)_, Oporto, Portugal, June 1998